I598 workspace troubleshooting review (#599)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/workspace-admin/workspaces-troubleshooting.adoc

---

Failures to start a workspace may be caused by the following factors:

> * Environment recipe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Incorrect environment recipe
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Network conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Restrictive network settings
```

[id="bad-recipes"]

> == Bad recipes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Incorrect environment recipes
```

> When a workspace is starting, the environment link:recipes.html[recipe] is sent to Docker or to the OpenShift API. The Che server then listens to events provided by a particular infrastructure. The Che server expects a running Docker container or an OpenShift pod. The server fails to start an environment and consequently the starting of the workspace fails if the infrastructure is unable to create and start a container or a pod from the provided recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a workspace is starting, an environment link:recipes.html[recipe] is sent to Docker or to the OpenShift API. The Che server then listens to events provided by the given infrastructure. The Che server expects a running Docker container or an OpenShift pod. The server fails to start an environment and consequently the starting of the workspace fails if the infrastructure is unable to create and start a container or a pod from the provided recipe.
```

> A recipe can be bad due to the following reasons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A recipe can be incorrect due to the following reasons:
```

* The Docker build fails with the provided `Dockerfile`. This can be because of a broken `Dockerfile` or because of Che. If the Docker build in Che link:recipes.html#dockerfile[does not support context], consider editing the Docker recipe locally to ensure that it is a valid `Dockerfile`. Add or copy resources into an image locally on your machine, push the image to a registry, such as DockerHub, and use the resulting images in the recipe.

* Che does not support certain link:recipes.html#composefile[Docker Compose syntax]. Ensure that the `Composefile` is supported by Che.

> * Installing packages in your Dockerfile instructions can take time. Moreover, in this case you depend on network conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installing packages in your `Dockerfile` instructions can take time. This may be influenced by network settings.
```

> If a workspace start fails because the container or the pod was not launched, you will not see logs from link:installers.html[installers]. Usually, you will find logs from infrastructure, image pull, and build. Analyze these logs to find the problem. The Che server also produces logs that are helpful in debugging the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Viewing logs from a failed workspace start

No link:installers.html[installer] logs are shown when a workspace fails to start because its container or pod are not launched. In most cases, only logs from infrastructure and image pull and build are shown. Analyse these logs to find the problem. The Che server also produces logs that are helpful in debugging the problem.
```

[id="network-conditions"]

> == Network conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Restrictive network settings
```

> The Che server, agents running in a workspace container or pod, and the user’s browser communicate with each other. Firewall, filtered ports, and other network restrictions may cause trouble when starting a workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Che server and agents, which run in a workspace container or pod, and the user’s browser communicate with each other. Firewall, filtered ports, and other network restrictions may cause trouble when starting a workspace.
```

> A workspace is considered to be in a `RUNNING` state after the Che server verifies that the workspace agent is up. The workspace agent also tries to reach the Che server. All this happens in separate containers or pods, and the user’s browser is not yet involved. The *workspace started by user $userName* message from the Che server logs indicates the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A workspace is considered to be in a `RUNNING` state after the Che server verifies that the workspace agent is up. The workspace agent also tries to reach the Che server. All this happens in separate containers or pods, and the user’s browser is not yet involved. The `workspace started by user $userName` message in the Che server logs indicates the following:
```

* The workspace container or pod is up.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* The workspace agent has successfully started.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* The Che server can reach it.

> It is possible that your browser (the client) cannot connect to a workspace agent. The Che server may use an internal IP to reach the workspace agent, while you may be accessing a workspace from a machine that is located in a different network. If you see a message saying that the IDE cannot be initialized, open the browser dev console and check the failed requests. The failed requests have requests to project and project-type API. The reason for this is that the ephemeral port range is filtered in your network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Troubleshooting network setting when workspace agent cannot be reached

An error message saying that the IDE cannot be initialized indicates that the client (browser) cannot reach the workspace agent. This is caused by the Che server using an internal IP address to reach the workspace agent, while you are accessing the workspace from a machine that is located on a different network. To confirm this, open the browser developer console and check failed requests. The failed requests are to `project` and `project-type` API.

To access a workspace from a different network than the one on which the Che server is running, enable access to the ephemeral port range on the Che server network.
```

[id="bootstrapping-failures"]
== Failure in bootstrapping

> When a workspace starts, the Che server creates and starts a container or a pod or a set of containers and pods as per the environment recipe. After the container or pod is running, a bootstrapping process begins - bootstrapper binary is downloaded and launched. If the server logs show bootstrapping failures, or you do not see any output in the *Machine* tab of the *Workspaces* view, the reason is that bootstrapper is not downloaded. Following are the reasons for the bootstrapper download failure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a workspace starts, the Che server creates and starts a container or a pod or a set of containers and pods as per the environment recipe. After the container or pod is running, a bootstrapping process begins - the bootstrapper binary is downloaded and launched. If the server logs show bootstrapping failures, or you do not see any output in the *Machine* tab of the *Workspaces* view, the reason is that bootstrapper is not downloaded. The following are possible the reasons for the bootstrapper download failure:
```

> * Network conditions (for example, running firewalld).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Network conditions (for example, firewall restrictions).
```

> * Bad bootstrapper binary URL that the Che server uses (often reproduced when deploying to OpenShift and missing necessary environment variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Incorrect bootstrapper binary URL that the Che server uses (often reproduced when deploying to OpenShift and missing necessary environment variables).
```

> Manually download the bootstrapper binary. On OpenShift, access the pod on the command line (rsh or terminal in web console) and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work around the problem, download the bootstrapper binary manually. On OpenShift, access the pod on the command line (shell or the terminal in the web console) and run the following commands:
```

----

> cd /tmp/bootstrapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cd /tmp/bootstrapper
```

> ls -la  # to check if there's a bootstrapper binary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ls -la  <1>
```

> curl ${CHE_URL}/agent-binaries/linux_amd64/bootstrapper/bootstrapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl ${CHE_URL}/agent-binaries/linux_amd64/bootstrapper/bootstrapper
```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
<1> to check for the existence of the bootstrapper binary
```

> If this curl command fails, port `80` is blocked in your network or port `443` is blocked if you use `https` routes on OpenShift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent the `curl` command from failing, unblock port `80` on your network. On OpenShift with `https` routes, unblock port `443`.
```

[id="bad-recipes"]
== Bad Recipes

> When a workspace is starting, the environment link:recipes.html[recipe] is sent to Docker or to the OpenShift API. The Che server then listens to events provided by a particular infrastructure. In simple words, the Che server expects a running container (Docker) or pod (OpenShift). If the infrastructure was unable to create and start a container or a pod from the provided recipe, the Che server fails to start an environment and consequently the starting of the workspace fails.

Reviewer 2: I suggest removing "In simple words"

> When a workspace is starting, the environment link:recipes.html[recipe] is sent to Docker or to the OpenShift API. The Che server then listens to events provided by a particular infrastructure. In simple words, the Che server expects a running container (Docker) or pod (OpenShift). If the infrastructure was unable to create and start a container or a pod from the provided recipe, the Che server fails to start an environment and consequently the starting of the workspace fails.

Reviewer 2: remove the parenthesis for (Docker) -> say something like "container such as Docker " or "Docker container" . Also remove the parenthesis for (OpenShift) -> say something like "OpenShift pod"

A recipe can be bad due to the following reasons:

> * The Docker build fails with the provided `Dockerfile`. This can be because of a broken `Dockerfile` or because of Che. If the Docker build in Che link:recipes.html#dockerfile[does not support context], consider editing the Docker recipe locally to ensure that it is a valid `Dockerfile`. Add or copy resources into an image locally on your machine, push the image to a registry (say, DockerHub), and use the resulting images in the recipe.

Reviewer 2: I would remove (say, DockerHub) and say something like such as DockerHub

* Che does not support certain link:recipes.html#composefile[Docker Compose syntax]. Ensure your `Composefile` is supported by Che.

* Timeouts: Installing packages in your Dockerfile instructions can take time. Moreover, in this case you depend on network conditions.

> If a workspace start fails because the container or the pod was not launched, you will not see logs from link:installers.html[installers]. Usually, you will find logs from infrastructure, image pull, build,  etc. Analyze these logs to find the problem. The Che server also produces logs that are helpful in debugging the problem.

Reviewer 2: Remove etc.  ...Missing a "the"

[id="network-conditions"]
== Network Conditions

> The Che server, agents running in a workspace container or pod, and the user’s browser communicate with each other. Firewall, filtered ports, and other network restrictions may cause troubles when starting a workspace.

Reviewer 2: troubles -> trouble

Reviewer 2: Timeouts: I would recommending removing the colon since a colon is not in the other bullets

> A workspace is considered to be in a `RUNNING` state after the Che server verifies that the workspace agent is up. The workspace agent also tries to reach the Che server. All this happens in separate containers or pods, and the user’s browser is not yet involved (you may start a workspace using REST API, for example). The *workspace started by user $userName* message from the Che server logs indicates that the workspace container or pod is up, the workspace agent has successfully started, and the Che server is able to reach it.

Reviewer 2: Remove the parenthesis (you may start a workspace using REST API, for example)....

The last sentence seems long... consider breaking it apart and making it a bullet list.  ...the message indicates the following:
* workspace container or pod is up
* workspace agent  has successfully started
* Che server is able to reach the workspace container
